General options:

--help=topic
	Print help on the given topic.  If the topic is omitted then a
	list of all the help topics is printed instead.

--version 
	Output program version.

filename
--input-file=filename
	Read input data from the give file.  This option (or just a
	filename) may be given more than once.

--coastlinefile=filename[,filename]
	Defines a comma separated list of files that contain coastline 
	data. The coastline data from the input files are removed if 
	this option is set. Files must have OSM or PBF fileformat.	

--gmapsupp
	Create a gmapsupp.img file that can be uploaded to a Garmin or
	placed in "/Garmin" in a microSD card (such as by mounting the
	device in USB mass storage mode).  It can be used on ready
	compiled img files, if the input files are not already compiled
	then they are compiled first and then the gmapsupp is created.

-c filename
--read-config=filename
	The given file is opened and each line is an option setting of
	the form option=value, any option that could be used on the command
	line can be used, however you omit the leading '--'.  The short
	option names with a single '-' cannot be used, simply use the
	long name instead.

--output-dir=filename
    The directory in which all output files are written. It defaults
    to the current working directory, ie. the directory the command is
    executed from.

-n name
--mapname=name
	Set the name of the map. Garmin maps are named by 8 digit
	numbers.  The default is 63240001.  It is best to use a different
	name if you are going to be making a map for others to use so
	that it is unique and does not clash with others.

--description=text
	Sets the descriptive text for the map. This may be displayed in
	QLandkarte, MapSource on on a GPS etc, where it is normally shown
	below the family name. Example: --description="Germany, Denmark"
	Please note: if you use splitter.jar to build a template.args file
	and use -c template.args, then that file may contain a
	"description" that will override this option. Use "--description" in
	splitter.jar to change the description in the template.args file.

--country-name=name
	Sets the map's country name. The default is "COUNTRY".

--country-abbr=abbreviation
	Sets the map's abbreviated country name. The default is "ABC".

--region-name=name
	Sets the map's region name. By default, the map has no region name.

--region-abbr=abbreviation
	Sets the map's abbreviated region name. By default, the map has
	no abbreviated region name.

Label options:

--latin1
	This is equivalent to --code-page=1252.

--code-page=number
  This option enables the use of international characters. Only 8 bit
  character sets are supported and so you have to specify which code page
  you want to use.

	It is entirely dependant on the device firmware which code pages are
	supported.
	
--charset=name
	This option is obsolete. Change the character set with the --code-page
	option.

--lower-case
	Allow labels to contain lower case letters.  Note that most or all
	Garmin devices are not able to display lower case letters at an angle
	so this option is not generally useful.

Style options:

--style=name
	Specify a different style name, rather than the default value
	(which is the name default).

--style-file=file
	Specify an external file to obtain the style from.  "file" can
	be a directory containing files such as info, lines, options
	(see resources/styles/default for an example).  The directory
	path must be absolute or relative to the current working
	directory when mkgmap is invoked.

	The file can be a zip file containing the files instead of a
	directory.

	The files can be at the top level or contained in a folder within
	the zip file.  If the zip file contains more than one top level
	folder then each folder is the name of a style that can be selected
	with the --style option.

	The argument can also be a URL that specifies the location of a
	style file.

	For backward compatibility, you can also supply a
	map-features.csv file here.  Support for that format is likely
	to be dropped in the future.

--list-styles
	List the available styles. If this option is preceeded by a style-file
	option then it lists the styles available within that file.

--levels=levels code
	Change the way that the levels on the map correspond to the zoom
	levels in the device. See customisation help. The default is:
	"0=24, 1=22, 2=20, 3=18, 4=16, 5=15", although each style can have
	its own default.

--name-tag-list
	Get the tag that will be used to supply the name.  Useful for
	language variations.  You can supply a list and the first one
	will be used.  eg. --name-tag-list=name:en,int_name,name

--map-features=file
	This option is obsolete; use the --style-file option instead.

Product description options:

--family-id
	This is an integer that identifies a family of products.
	Range: [1..9999]
	Mkgmap default: 6324

--family-name
	If you build several maps, this option describes the
	family name of all of your maps. Garmin will display this
	in the map selection screen.
	Example: --family-name="OpenStreetmap mkgmap XL 2019"

--product-id
	This is an integer that identifies a product within a family.
	It is often just 1, which is the default.

--product-version
	The version of the product. Default value is 1.

--series-name
	This name will be displayed in MapSource in the map selection
	drop-down. The default is "OSM map".

--area-name

--overview-mapname=name
	If --tdbfile is enabled, this gives the name of the overview
	.img and .tdb files. The default map name is osmmap.

--overview-mapnumber=8 digit number
	If --tdbfile is enabled, this gives the internal 8 digit
	number used in the overview map and tdb file.  The default
	number is 63240000.

Optimization options:

--reduce-point-density=NUM
	Simplifies the ways with the Douglas Peucker algorithm.
	NUM is the maximal allowed error distance, by which the resulting
	way may differ from the original one.
	This distance gets shifted with lower zoom levels. 
	Recommended setting is 4, this should lead to only small differences
	(Default is 2.6, which should lead to invisible changes)

--reduce-point-density-polygon=NUM
	Allows to set the maximal allowed error distance for the DP algorythm
	to be applied against polygons. Recommended setting is 8.

--merge-lines
	Try to merge lines. This helps the simplify filter to straighten out
	longer chunks at lower zoom levels. Decreases file size more.
	Increases paint speed at low zoom levels.
	At the moment this option causes routing errors. Use only if routing 
	is not needed in your map.
	
--min-size-polygon=NUM
  Removes all polygons smaller than NUM from the map.
  This reduces map size and speeds up redrawing of maps. 
  Recommended value is 8 to 15, default is 8.

Miscellaneous options:

--max-jobs[=number]
	When number is specified, allow that number of maps to be
	processed concurrently. If number is not specified, the limit
	is set equal to the number of CPU cores. If this option is not
	given at all, the limit is 1 (i.e., the maps are processed
	sequentially).

--keep-going
	Don't quit whole application if an exception occurs while
	processing a job - continue to process the other jobs.

--block-size=number
	Changes the block size that is used in the generated map. This
	option is not usually needed, but sometimes an error message
	will ask you to try a value for this option.

--net
	Create maps that supports the "lock to road" option. Not required
	if --route is also given.

--route
	Experimental: Create maps that support routing.  This implies --net
	(so that --net need not be given if --route is given).

--drive-on-left
--drive-on-right
	Explicitly specify which side of the road vehicles are
	expected to drive on. If neither of these options are
	specified, it is assumed that vehicles drive on the right
	unless --check-roundabouts is specified and the first
	roundabout processed is clockwise.

--check-roundabouts
	Check that roundabouts have the expected direction (clockwise
	when vehicles drive on the left). Roundabouts that are complete
	loops and have the wrong direction are reversed. Also checks
	that the roundabouts do not fork or overlap other roundabouts.

--check-roundabout-flares
	Sanity check roundabout flare roads - warn if they don't point
	in the correct direction or if they are not oneway or if they
	extend too far.

--max-flare-length-ratio=NUM
	When checking flare roads, ignore roads whose length is
	greater than NUM (an integer) times the distance between the
	nodes on the roundabout that the flare roads connect to. Using
	this option with a value of at least 5 will cut down the
	number of legitimate roads that are flagged as flare road
	problems. Default value is 0 (disabled) because it's not a
	completely reliable heuristic.

--ignore-maxspeeds
	When reading OSM files, ignore any "maxspeed" tags.

--ignore-turn-restrictions
	When reading OSM files, ignore any "restriction" relations.

--ignore-osm-bounds
	When reading OSM files, ignore any "bounds" elements.
	With this option selected generate-sea sometimes works better,
	but routing across tiles will not work.

--preserve-element-order
	Process the map elements (nodes, ways, relations) in the order
	in which they appear in the OSM input. Without this option,
	the order in which the elements are processed is not defined.

--remove-short-arcs[=MinLength]
	Merge nodes to remove short arcs that can cause routing
	problems. If MinLength is specified (in metres), arcs shorter
	than that length will be removed. If a length is not
	specified, only zero-length arcs will be removed.

--adjust-turn-headings[=BITMASK]
	Where possible, ensure that turns off to side roads change
	heading sufficiently so that the GPS believes that a turn is
	required rather than a fork. This also avoids spurious
	instructions to "keep right/left" when the road doesn't
	actually fork.

	Optional BITMASK (default value 3) allows you to specify which
	adjustments are to be made (where necessary):

	1 = increase angle between side road and outgoing main road
	2 = increase angle between side road and incoming main road

--report-similar-arcs
	Issue a warning when more than one arc connects two nodes and
	the ways that the arcs are derived from contain identical
	points. It doesn't make sense to use this option at the same
	time as using the cycleway creating options.

--report-dead-ends=LEVEL
	Set the dead end road warning level. The value of LEVEL (which
	defaults to 1 if this option is not specified) determines
	those roads to report: 0 = none, 1 = multiple oneway roads
	that join together but go nowhere, 2 = individual oneway roads
	that go nowhere.

--report-undefined-nodes
	Issue a warning when a way references an undefined node.

--road-name-pois[=GarminCode]
	Generate a POI for each named road. By default, the POIs'
	Garmin type code is 0x640a. If desired, a different type code
	can be specified with this option.  This is a workaround for not
	being able to search for roads.
	0x2f15: a blue dot in the middle of the road, and if you select,
		or 'hover' over it, the streetname appears.
	
--add-pois-to-areas
	Generate a POI for each area. The POIs are created after the
	style is applied and only for polygon types that have a
	reasonable point equivalent.

--generate-sea[=ValueList]
	Generate sea polygons. ValueList is an optional comma
	separated list of values:

	multipolygon
		generate the sea using a multipolygon (the default
		behaviour so this really doesn't need to be specified).

	polygons | no-mp
		don't generate the sea using a multipolygon - instead,
		generate a background sea polygon plus individual land
		polygons with tag natural=land. This requires a
		suitable land polygon type to be defined in the style
		file (suggested type is 0x010100) and the polygon must
		be defined in the TYP file as having a higher drawing
		level than the sea polygon type.

	no-sea-sectors
		disable the generation of "sea sectors" when the
		coastline fails to reach the tile's boundary.
		
	extend-sea-sectors
	  same as no-sea-sectors. Additional adds a point so 
	  coastline reaches the nearest tile boundary.

	land-tag=TAG=VAL
		tag to use for land polygons (default natural=land).

	close-gaps=NUM
		close gaps in coastline that are less than this
		distance (metres)

	floodblocker 
		enable the flood blocker that prevents a flooding of
		land by checking if the sea polygons contain streets
		(works only with multipolygon processing)		

	fbgap=NUM           
		flood blocker gap in metre (default 40)
		points that are closer to the sea polygon do not block 

	fbthres=NUM
		at least so many highway points must be contained in 
		a sea polygon so that it may be removed by the flood
		blocker (default 20)

	fbratio=NUM
		only sea polygons with a higher ratio 
		(highway points * 100000 / polygon size) are removed 
		(default 0.5)
		
	fbdebug
		switches on the debugging of the flood blocker
		generates GPX files for each polygon checked by
		the flood blocker

--make-poi-index
	Generate the POI index (not yet useful).

--index
	Generate a global index that can be used with MapSource.
	Makes the find places functions in MapSource available.
	The index consists of two files named osmmap.mdx and osmmap_mdr.img
	by default.  The overview-mapname can be used to change the name.
	If the mapset is sent to the device from MapSource, it will enable
	find by name and address search on the GPS.

	This is an experimental option and there are several unresolved
	issues.

--nsis
	Write a .nsi file that can be used with the Nullsoft Scriptable Install System
	(NSIS) to create a Windows Mapsource Installer.

--make-all-cycleways
	Turn on all of the options that make cycleways.

--make-opposite-cycleways
	Some oneway streets allow bicycle traffic in the reverse
	direction and this option makes a way with the same points as
	the original that allows bicycle traffic (in both directions).

--make-cycleways
	Some streets have a separate cycleway track/lane just for
	bicycle traffic and this option makes a way with the same
	points as the original that allows bicycle traffic. Also,
	bicycle traffic is prohibited from using the original way
	(unless that way's bicycle access has been defined).

--link-pois-to-ways
	If this option is enabled, POIs that are situated at a point
	in a way will be associated with that way and may modify the
	way's properties. Currently supported are POIs that restrict
	access (e.g. bollards). Their access restrictions are applied
	to a small region of the way near the POI.

--delete-tags-file=FILENAME
	Names a file that should contain one or more lines of the form
	TAG=VALUE or TAG=*. Blank lines and lines that start with
	# or ; are ignored. All tag/value pairs in the OSM input are
	compared with these patterns and those that match are deleted.

--tdbfile
	Write a .tdb file.
--tdb-v3
	Write a version 3 tdb file instead of the default v4. Not useful.

--show-profiles=1
	Sets a flag in tdb file which marks set mapset as having contour 
	lines and allows showing profile in MapSource. Default is 0 
	which means disabled. 

--draw-priority=25
	When two maps cover the same area, this option controls what
	order they are drawn in and therefore which map is on top of
	which.  Higher priorities are drawn "on top" of lower
	priorities.

--transparent
	Make the map transparent, so that if two maps are loaded that
	cover the same area, you can see through this map and see the
	lower map too.  Useful for contour line maps among other
	things.

--no-poi-address
	Disable address / phone information to POIs. Address info is
	read according to the "Karlsruhe" tagging schema. Automatic
	filling of missing information could be enabled using the
	"location-autofill" option.

--no-sorted-roads
	Suppress the normal generation of sorted road data. This will
	make the map quicker to build but the find address or
	intersection functions will be lost.

--location-autofill=''number''
	Controls how country region info is gathered for cities /
	streets and pois

	0 	(Default) The country region info is gathered by
		analysis of the cities is_in tags.

		If no country region info is present the default
		passed default country region is used.
		 
	1	Additional analysis of partial is_in info to get
		relations between hamlets and cities
	
	2	Brute force search for nearest city with info if all
		methods before failed. Warning cities my end up in the
		wrong country/region.
		
	3	Enables debug output about suspicious relations that
		might cause wrong country region info

--verbose
	Makes some operations more verbose. Mostly used with --list-styles.
